this is a story of how a long time half
ago subscriber who against odds recently
got accepted into MIT let's go
hey halfway here and today I got my
original campus crowd gear on because
we're gonna be interviewing Lenny from
Tron China she's gonna reveal to you all
the juicy secrets that helped her gain
to MIT including a full list of the AP
classes she took su writing tips will
help you stand out in your application
study tips to make you more productive a
detailed breakdown of her
extracurriculars and at the very very
end of this video she's gonna tell you
her exact SAT score and GPA that allowed
her to get into MIT I'm so excited for
you to watch this video because this is
a dream come true for her and for me
because I started this channel to
document the hidden patterns of success
and to show that to you so you can dare
to make your dreams come true and she
has denim and she has done it right here
it was her childhood dream to go to MIT
and she finally got accepted leave how
are you doing good how are you awesome
I'm very good I'm very good so what was
the moment like I saw your reaction
video how did you feel when you first
got your acceptance email I feel like
surreal because that never thought I
would be accepted to MIT and it's just
mind-blowing what what did your parents
say by the way cuz I know Asian parents
that's the dream that's the dream man
you made their dreams come true not just
your dream come true so when I tell my
mother you're like wow really like
that's very excited very nice very nice
what are you gonna be studying at MIT I
will be studying mechanical engineering
and with the possible double major or
minor in math nice tell me a little bit
about your background because I know
that's also important in the application
process so like where are you from how
did you where did you grow up or did you
go to school and stuff like that so I
actually come from China and I recently
moved to the United States
about three years ago
I spent one year of the high school in
China and then the rest three years in
California did you always dream about
going to MIT actually yes and my idea
was my dream school since I was a kid so
I would do whatever I could to collect
informations about MIT and it's just
driven me all the way wow that's awesome
you dared to make your dreams come true
I I congratulate you on that it takes a
lot of balls and effort to do that
now we're gonna be diving into the
application process of how she got into
MIT and at the end of this video she's
gonna reveal her SAT score and GPA that
got her into MIT I'm very excited to
talk about this because the whole point
of why I started my channel is to
document successful students and find
patterns of success and campus grow is
to make the college process easier right
there's a lot of information out there
but it's very hard to find exact
information about how to get into the
school we try to make it more open
source and try to make it available to
everyone so talk about the application
there are two ways to get into MIT yeah
why is through the regular application
process which is from the MIT
application and the other one is through
the quest bridge so it's a no income
it's a program for no income high
achieving students the process are a
little bit different and the essays we
write is also different but it's someone
has the same impact to your application
so that's what you got in with yes I
applied as a quest bridge finalist and
if you were not much liked by me I match
with me like your match to the school
and you won't need to pay any tuition
basically you get a full ride with this
school I searched up quest bridge and
quest bridge is a national nonprofit
based in Palo Alto California so it
connects local
income students with leading
institutions so that's their nonprofit
basically so is it easier to get into
these top schools with quest bridge
instead of their actual online
applications the impact is about the
same but if you are from a low-income
family and you feel like this knowing
I'm identity it's you more than the
question definitely adds your value to
your application a lot more so the
colleges will see you in your more depth
value haha gotcha okay gotcha
cool so when did you start to think
about your college applications I think
it's around the middle of my junior year
because around that time most of my
senior friends are applying to colleges
and they got into colleges so you hear
them talk about that all the time you
were somewhat influenced by this like a
flow and then you will start thinking
about your own path and how you would
prepare for your college application get
inspirations going because that's very
important because you said you thought
about it a lot so what did you end up
writing about and so for Christ bridge
essays we have around lie I don't
remember the exact number but I around
that number like a small prompt it's 35
words each and they will have the other
part which has two big essays one is
eight hundred essay which you talk about
your background your identity and the
other one is you can choose one of the
three prompts and talk about more like
knowledge based essays so for the the
biggest eight hundred word essay I
talked about my background like my
family background and how I transferred
from China to the United States and the
impact my family has given me and for
the 500 word essay I talk about a
concept that
my teachers had always mentioned and
that it's called knowledge transfer so
like if you know something as you can
also apply that in physics can give me
an example of how you apply the
knowledge transfer and so if you know
calculus in math like the derivatives
and integrals and if you apply this
concept to the math to physics you know
that on the derivative of the derivative
of distance is equal to the magnitude of
the magnitude of speed and the
derivative of speed is equal to the
magnitude of acceleration as me maybe
sound a little bit nerdy but that's how
I wrote in my say you you wrote about
that so did you think you needed to be
that technical in your essay no you
don't have to be like you just need to
be yourself because I'm kind of curvy so
I just wanna show express myself to the
application okay that's good so so you
personally like math and physics and
that's what you wanted to express and
you express that through your detailed
formulas so did you take any AP classes
I did yeah I did so I can shoot you know
year I to three AP classes and one was
in senior year I took two okay so five
total yeah that's not too bad that's not
too bad yeah our school doesn't offer
that much AP classes and most of the AP
classes I want to take and they don't
have it so you don't think that was like
a very crucial part in getting in it
shouldn't be because AP exams are a way
you express your knowledge in those
professional subjects that you can
express your knowledge in other forms
such as competitions research and own
projects you don't have
take a peek attempt to do that what were
you extracurricular sin
I need still only five extracurriculars
but incarceration is up to six so the
main fight that listed the number one is
math club so I was in my school math
club for three years since I moved to
California and we just have local high
school competitions and as well as math
circles where we discuss a lot of math
problems and the second one I did was
for you president ours like our mascot
doesn't have enough people so we don't
really have officers loves your number
two extracurricular second was
photography club since our school
doesn't have a photography club so I was
like why don't I create one and so I
came and I can impart this knowledge to
a lot more students and to just to
engage them in this interest
so I created a photography club I was
the president I teach we connect camera
sessions to the club members and
sometimes we will do a field trip to
outside and yeah that's basically it
okay nice cool and then number three I
think I also did the girls who code
summer immersion program at the end of
the summer program we also did a project
our group made a website and probe and
need again to bring awareness to the
girls self-facing and the number four
let me find my application profile yes
and the other extracurricular I did was
our school varsity tennis team
so I participate in this team since my
junior year to senior year anyway
and we practice tennis and wait did you
win like did you win anything big yes I
was
luckily they think that doubles
championship for Oakland a snake Nick
with my doubles partner okay that's cool
the fifth extra was volunteer and since
I was very interested
I'm interested in books and my friends
actually introduced me to this local
bookstore where you can buy a lot of
books for only three or four dollars as
well I am I will be a customer here on
the all day and so I first was that
customer there and then I just love this
atmosphere and then I asked the manager
if I could be a volunteer there and they
said sure what did you do
just like organize shelves yes organize
jumps and I will do the cash so you
weren't an employee but just not paid so
those were your extracurriculars that
you had on your profile yes nice so
based on what I've talked to with the
other like students at like Harvard MIT
like the top schools they said in their
application there's usually is something
that makes them unique right that's
something that stands out a little bit
what do you think that is for you hmm I
think throughout my throughout my extra
creatures admission officers can
actually see that I I am NOT feared of
the lack of opportunities presented to
me and even if I don't have a lot of
opportunities I would be I would like be
active so I would actually open myself
to create these opportunities because
like for example if we talk of it club
our school doesn't have that resource I
would just create my own and to
importance to other students as well
that's awesome I mean
that is the essence of daring to dream
because when something is not presented
to you you got to go out and create it
that's not a trait you just need for the
college application process that's a
train you need to succeed in life I mean
the most valuable things are not going
to be handed to you and they're the most
valuable jobs are not going to be listed
on indeed com yeah nice nice how long
did it take you to write your
application so I actually procrastinate
a lot so I didn't start writing my
application until two weeks before that
that night but before that I definitely
thought about the questions like
throughout my day but I can write it
before I mean like most of the
application is thinking about what you
need to write about and actually it
starts way before you even start writing
because it starts with you doing the
things that are worth writing about
so like the writing process is not the
most important essays are just
expression of what you do and your
passion for the things you're doing
what are your essay writing tips loves
your process for writing the essay um
first you read the prompts and maybe
highlighting some of the key words will
be beneficial and you can just think
about like what elements in your lives
can be seated in your essay don't think
you you can finish your essay in just
one or two hours it takes much more time
than you think it will be like think
about what you will say in your essays
so out of your day like maybe on your
way to school maybe we were taking a
shower that's the most inspiration come
from and maybe you are going to sleep
and maybe even your dreams yeah and
after you collect those resources like
the materials you want the instance you
want to mention in your essay new world
like on a piece of paper write it write
it down
and think how you would feed those
elements of yourself to you into this
essay and then you will start writing
about it until rough draft even though
at the beginning you think Wow 500 words
is so much but after you actually like
stay calm and write about it you will
write actually way more words in it so
that's the time you actually crop your
essays and sometimes replace your make
some of the words to all other more
advanced words that would be more
helpful as well and that's the structure
of how I wrote my essence okay awesome
do you have any other tips to make
yourself stand out in your essays first
it's okay to be vulnerable it's okay to
be vulnerable like just try to be
yourself and don't make up something if
that's not what you actually are and
just trying to be yourselves explain
that a little bit more like what does
that even mean thank give me example
it's like how do you be vulnerable is
that I keep talking about your feelings
or like what but there is always a
problem that asks you I was her biggest
challenge and how did you overcome it
because it's a challenge it challenges
you so in might hurt your feelings so
when you're writing about this I say
it's ok to express what you actually
feel and don't forget you write about
how this feeling how this experience
impact you as a person like how it has
helped you to grow and also like how you
have used this experience to help others
as well ok so those are two very
important things is that like a common
theme throughout your essays is that how
this experience helped you shape you to
who you are and then how you helped
others I think so like because college
wants to see like how your experience
would help their campus their community
as well how long do you spend studying
every single day
depends on the work that I have you
should be in a range of three to five
hours studying like reviewing doing
homework maybe an average of say hours
but if you are preparing for the SAT you
spend way more time on that mmm how many
practice SAT exams did you do do you
remember how many books did you get
through let me give you let me see if I
can find some like I have this thick ice
18 book yeah show you oh wow flip it
open let us see some of your notes let
us see some of your notes I took a lot
of practice tests yeah thanks English
section okay hey I don't know if I can
see well because I think because English
is not my first language I think I try
writing down Chinese as notes can help
me remember things well and
comprehending the meaning I want to come
in - yeah nice nice what was your
studying process like for the SAT I just
do a lot of practice tests and just
because the practice tests have question
analysis you can analyze why you got
this question wrong and try to fight the
patter between the questions it's very
important so when you were in high
school did you have any free time I do
otherwise how can I spend time watching
your campus that's true that's true
how long didn't watch my videos oh I
think it's pretty early since my
sophomore year because I want you yeah I
want to know like the MIT campus so I
would just search that and you're nice I
think it has helped definitely helped me
to get more on getting a better
standing of the MIT experience I think
like your videos just open the door for
me to explore the abroad college yeah
yeah that's what I try to do it's like I
try to expand your perspective and show
you what's possible what's possible like
just seeing a variety of different
experiences opens you up to more
possibilities yet daring to dream that's
what I like to show
I think the process to do something
great starts with your personal habits
because habits are the things that build
up for you to produce something like a
good result right so what are the habits
that make you a successful student in
your opinion I don't sound very
successful but like one key habit I
recommend every single everyone you have
is don't be afraid to ask questions
because it's just a way to show that you
are craving for the knowledge and you're
not afraid to show that to the public
and also when you ask the question and
also benefit to other people as well I
in elementary school my teacher always
told me you ask too many questions
she got annoyed at me that elementary
school teacher but she liked me only ask
questions
after you have done your own research
it's just yeah I mean like yeah don't
ask stupid questions okay don't ask
lazy questions I think that's better how
do you schedule your day the light
before I would just write down the
things I need to get down on a notebook
like for example here like much today I
will do this I thought what time yeah
yeah nice okay so you plan it out by the
hour kind of in like little blocks so
you know exactly what you'll be doing
and what
Sentret of time we actually follow that
exact schedule if I do write that on the
on the book maybe around 80 to 90
percent okay so you get everything done
there you plan yes because it's also
important to plan the things that you
actually are going to do otherwise is
not station and then like what kept you
motivated throughout this whole process
to score itself because it's my dream
that I want to go I want to go to since
my childhood so I would just do whatever
I can to promote myself and keep
motivating myself anything that you do
that your friends find strange but you
think it's good for example like
sometimes I talk to my camera just as a
self-reflection you know like things
like that
I say oh you know happy if you're lonely
it's I often times get inspirations
throughout my through my dreams okay
yeah it's very strange to my friends
obviously but like my math teacher
actually writes only to me on this point
like because like in your dream is but
it's more creative than in real life and
sometimes I even get inspirations in my
college application through my dreams
Wow
I don't remember anything no maybe like
vaguely and they're like two minutes
later I forget after I wake up so what
was your SAT or a CT score so I didn't
take the SAT but I to the SAT I took it
three times which is a lot and the first
time I took it in the March of my junior
year I did not get a very good score
it's around like meet 1300 ish okay and
the second time I killed him August yeah
August I really improved much as well is
around like 30 ad something and I took
it a day in October and it's the highest
of gods but it's still very low compared
to the average scoring MIT
the lower range of 14 houses okay 1,400
gotcha
and you were still able to get into MIT
which is a testament to say that grades
are not all that matters right yes like
there's a threshold but once you're past
it it doesn't matter that much I think a
break down my score might be beneficial
to the students so you got 800 on math
my English score is 600 ish because I
think like in English is not my first
language and I still like
like I didn't have a decent score of
English English section but also like
convinced officers that I am dedicated
in tune or English and improve my
English through day because as I'm
taking I took the opinion language in
the English language composition and
also had my recommendation letter
written from my AP language teacher
actually showed right even though my SAT
scores not that high I still I'm so
passionate to improve my English skills
and do that and what was your GPA like
unweighted GPA is four point I don't 4.0
and the way that UPA is around four
point three seven out of four or five
other than like si GPA SAT was any thing
extra definitely I think because our
school doesn't offer as much AP classes
I want to learn more advanced knowledge
I took some classes in my local college
Community College so I took the physics
for a which is equivalent to the AP
Physics II mechanics in my junior year
and I took the physics for B which is
equivalent to AP physics electronics and
make magnetism in my senior year and I'm
currently taking in your algebra oh wow
how did you express our in your
application so I just put that in my
classes section okay cool
those are like some pretty detailed tips
good stuff man good stuff good stuff
that helps yeah it's definitely gonna
help a lot of people do you think
there's anything that we're missing that
you want to fill in and I would say
right because to apply to colleges you
need recommendation letters and in order
you write in order to get a good
recommendation letters you need you you
need to build a good relationship with
your teachers so you can do that by
asking questions to your to your
teachers after school or
during their office hours and don't
don't don't don't be afraid to bug them
with all your questions because I park
my baby starts teacher a lot yeah I
actually just talked about that tip for
going into college in my last video yeah
talk to your teachers and befriend them
so they can connect you to more
opportunities later all right now let's
take a look back on the past four years
and reflect a little bit if you could
give yourself one piece of advice when
you first move to America what would it
be I would say don't be afraid to to
reach out to others
because like as I said earlier
opportunities doesn't come for you you
need to get it for yourselves like I
didn't know I could take it because it's
by that time but I actually kind but I
don't know what would you like to say to
the other 62,000 subscribers who have a
big dream just like you on how schools
Channel and why otherwise I will kill
you guys is follow your passions don't
let others stand in your way
believe in yourself that you can do it
eventually just another love no no no
that's good that's good I mean like it's
very vague though it's very vague how do
you follow your passions like what do
you mean by that you like for take extra
Kriegers don't do it because of the name
but doing it because you actually want
to be involved in that and do it because
you want you exploring this field a lot
more mmm I like that I like that that's
definitely more actionable so guys if
you want to follow her journey into a my
team next year what is your YouTube
channel because you started one recently
right yes and my youtube channel name is
Amy 7:01 Kimmy is spell that's why I am
white what are you gonna be posting I
will be posting videos about my
lifestyle photography and sometimes
study tips and also probably recently I
will post college videos like interview
process and how to get a good score on
AP exams stuff like that awesome
cool that's some good stuff definitely
go follow her and subscribe to this
channel if your dream rate
congratulations on getting into MIT once
again congratulations and just remember
big things coming